# Frequently Asked Question

What is NoCheat?

- NoCheat is a web application that uses the [pre-trained GPT-2 model](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/v4.26.1/en/model_doc/gpt2) to  detect AI-generated text content.

How does NoCheat work?

- NoCheat takes in your input document(s), can be of document type {TXT, PDF, DOCX, ODT}, parses the document to string, and run the pre-trained GPT2 to compute the perplexity, perplexity per line, and burstiness score to determine whether or not a text document was AI or human generated, or inconclusive.

What is a perplexity score?

- Perplexity is a measure used to evaluate the performance of language models. It refers to how well the model is able to predict the next word in a sequence of words. So a lower perplexity score indicates that the language model is better at calculating the next word that is likely to occur in a given sequence, while a higher perplexity score indicates that the model is less accurate. Texts with a lower perplexity score are more likely to be generated by language models. 

What is a perplexity per line score?

- Perplexity per line is just the average perplexity score for each line or sentences in a given input document (sum of perplexity score for every lines over the number of lines in a a given document). Perplexity itself is an incomplete indicator that misses many factors including text length. Longer texts are less random and generally have lower perplexities. We use perplexity per line score to determine if a document was likely to be generated by a language model. A document with lower perplexity per line average likely means that the document was generated by language models.

What is a burstiness score?

- Burstiness  human written language exhibit properties of Burstiness: non common
items appear in random clusters that will certainly appear over time. 
recent research has extended this property to natural language processing, 
some human written sentences can have low perplexities, 
but there is bound to be spikes in perplexity as the human continues writing. 
Contrastingly, perplexity is uniformly distributed and constantly low for machine generated texts.


Where can I find the source code for this project?
- Burstiness basically measures how predictable a piece of content is by the homogeneity of the length and structure of sentences throughout the text. Whereas perplexity is the randomness or complexity of the word usage,  burstiness is the variance of the sentences: their lengths, structures, and tempos. Real people tend to write in bursts and lulls - we naturally switch things up and write long sentences or short ones. On the otherhand, language models' text generation tends to be more uniform. It has a steady tempo, compared to our creative spontaneity. Burstiness is calculated as the maximum value of perplexity per line. 

Why did we choose these measures?

- These measures can be more easily caluclated using a pre-trained model like GPT-2, and more suitable for a proof of demonstration project. There are perhaps better ways and other better measures to detect whether a document is AI generated, but this is a yet to be solved problem in NLP, as more powerful language models like GPT-3 and the derived ChatGPT model continues to get better at generating well-written texts.

How well can NoCheat determines if a document was AI generated?

- NoCheat performs reasonably well on human-generated texts, AI-generated texts from ChatGPT, from GPT-2 model that we have been able to test. But given that we are using a language model to make a determination, language models can be fooled, too. We do not yet recommend this tool to be used in actual academic settings.

Where can I find the project on GitHub?

- You can find the project's GitHub repo [here](https://github.com/PhDN/NoCheat/)
